---
parent: Concepts
---

# Mode

Santa can run in one of two modes, `Lockdown` or `Monitor`. To check the current
mode, use the `santactl status` command, for example:

```sh
â‡’  santactl status | grep "^  Mode"
  Mode                      | Lockdown
```

##### Monitor mode

The default mode. Running Santa in Monitor Mode will stop any binaries matching
block rules, but will not stop unknown binaries from running. This is a flexible
state, allowing virtually zero user interruption but still gives protection
against known blocked binaries. In addition execution events that would have
been blocked in Lockdown mode are generated and can be collected and analyzed by
a sync server.

##### Lockdown mode

Running Santa in Lockdown Mode will stop all blocked binaries and additionally
will prevent all unknown binaries from running. This means that if the binary
has no rules or scopes that apply, then it will be blocked.

##### Standalone mode (Beta)

When Santa is in Standalone Mode it will allow the user to approve their own
binaries provided they authenticate biometrically with TouchID. Upon a
successful authentication Santa will then add a `SIGNINGID` rule for the binary
if it is validly signed and a `BINARY` if it is not signed at all.

This allows a user to quickly self approve in lieu of using a sync service. If
one is using a sync service Events will still be sent up to that sync service.

Standalone mode typically requires TouchID  or password to approve binary
execution.

The configuration option `EnableStandalonePasswordFallback` can be disabled to
make Standalone mode require physical access. When disabled only TouchID will be
used for self-approval because this requires a physical interaction and cannot
be spoofed by other software acting as a mouse/keyboard.

{: .note}
Standalone mode will not override explicit block rules nor will it override static rules.

##### Changing Modes

There are two ways to change the running mode: changing the configuration
profile and with a sync server configuration.

###### Change modes with the configuration profile

Set the `ClientMode` in your configuration profile to the integer value `1` for
`MONITOR`, `2` for `LOCKDOWN`, or `3` for `STANDALONE`.

```xml
<key>ClientMode</key>
<integer>1</integer>
```

Install your new configuration profile, it will overwrite any old
`com.northpolesec.santa` profiles you may have already install. See the
[configuration](../deployment/configuration.md) document for more details.

###### Change modes with a sync server

The mode is set in the preflight sync stage. Use the key `client_mode` and a
value of `MONITOR`, `LOCKDOWN`, or `STANDALONE`.
